And there, this first function makes up for a great first unit test.
It has no other dependencies because it does not call any other function, it does not reach out to the
web or anything like that,
it simply takes input, two arguments, and returns an output
and this would be a great example for a simple unit test we can write. Now to write a test for this function,
you create a separate file into which you'll store your tests and you typically name that file like
the file you're testing, util and then .spec or .test.js. The name is up to you, jest will
automatically detect files with .test or .spec in them, it will run them automatically
once you run jest, which we'll do in a second. So I have my utiltest.js file and now I want to test my
generate text function. For that I first of all need to import it here,
I will use destructuring syntax here to require something from util,
so from that util file where the code is sourced and then destructuring syntax simply means I pull
out some items from the object which is in the end exported by the util file and it will pull out the
generate text function.
So essentially I import the generate text function into my utiltest.js file and by the way, this is
the native way of importing in jest tests.
You could think that you can also use like ES6 imports if you had respective exports in your file
of course, something like this but this will not work,
not only because I'm not using ES6 exports here,
that is also a problem,
but even if I would use them,
this is not a syntax natively supported by jest, this Node.js
like import syntax is supported by jest and therefore I also wrote my code to use Node.js exports
because that made it easier to implement jest.
Obviously you can also make it work with ES modules, like you use it in React or Angular apps
but there you need a more complex build workflow,
you need some additional packages and I did not want to spend a lot of times on the setup,
I want to spend time on testing,
therefore I use this syntax. So now I'm using or I'm importing generate text in this file.
Now we can write our first test and for that, we can simply write test here.
This is a function which is now globally available or which will be globally available
when we run our tests with jest, so it's a function provided by jest in the end and this function allows
us to define a single test. Now we can give the test a name,
that's the first argument or not really a name, more of a description you could say, something like should
output name and age.
Typically you kind of define what you want to test in this name or in this description,
so which output are you testing for,
you try to put that into your description.
Ultimately you can put whichever text you want in here but it should be kind of descriptive.
The second function argument is then an anonymous function which you pass in, which is the function jest
will execute to really run your tests,
so in this function you add your testing code, your code that will be executed.
And now here, we can generate some text by calling generate text and storing that in a text constant
and there, we'll pass in Max and 29 let's say. Now that is also what I tested here manually, entering
Max and 29 added a new item with text Max and 29 years old,
now I'm effectively testing that part where this text is generated,
so not where the whole item is generated but only this text. Max 29 years old is what I expect
as an output of generate text because if we have a look at generate text, well then we return a text
here where we have the name and then in brackets, 29 or whatever the age is, 29 years old.
Now if we have that expectation, we should formulate that here in the test and we do this with the expect
function, which is also provided by jest. Now if you would use a different setup with let's say mocha
and chai,
then test would be a function defined by your test runner whereas expect would be a function provided
by your assertion library and most assertion libraries work with the expect function because tests are
pretty descriptive in terms of function names,
we write a test and then we expect something.
Now here, we expect that text, so we pass the thing we want to look into,
we want to compare,
we expect text is equal to a specific text and we do this with a bunch of helper functions that we can
now chain on our expectable object here and there, you see we have a lot of functions where we could
say we expect text to be not a number for example or to be null or just to be
and then here as an argument to the to be function, we pass the value we expect text to be. That
could be a number but that could be also Max twenty nine years old which is exactly the output
we do expect to get because it is the output
we can also see here and now with that, we have our first tests defined. Now to run this test with the
jest package,
I will tweak my package.json file, there we have jest installed and we have a script up here,
the test script which is kind of invalid right now, here I will just run jest and this will automatically
search for files with .test or .spec in the name and execute them or which end with .test.js
or .spec.js I should say.  So now with that added, we can simply run npm test down there
in a normal terminal navigated project folder and jest will automatically execute all our testing
files
and here we get a beautiful green output.
It found one test which passed and there we see the one test which passed successfully, where it should
output name and age
and that succeeded.
Now this is great because now if we ever change something here, let's say we accidentally output the
age here too, we change something in that function and the original function and we break it,
if we save this and then we run our tests again, we now actually get a failed test and that is exactly
where tests can help us a lot.
We get a failed test, we see which test failed, should output name and age and jest even gives us some information
on what failed there.
We see that we expect that Max 29 years old but we got 29 29 years old and
this now helps us debug our code and fix our code.
Of course this is kind of a constructed example here but you could have a typo like this,
you could be misusing some variable or some argument and now if we fix that, we can indeed run this again
and get that test passed. By the way,
you can also watch with jest, you can add --watch here and now you run npm test, jest will actually
keep on watching and you can control the watcher with the shortcuts that are shown there to for example
force a run of all your tests again or whatever you want to do
and it also means that now if I do change my file here and I save, jest automatically reruns my tests.
So this is great, having this run all the time and therefore ensuring that we get errors right as we
change something,
so that is another great option and that is our first unit test here.
Now this is a first simple unit test,
now before we move onto integration tests, just a quick example for a different kind of test that could
also make sense.
We should also make sure that it does not just return the valid response here because we can get this
with the this trick as well, if I copy the output there,
I can also just use return and then this text here and if I do that, then my first test will always succeed,
I quickly comment out that second snippet, so my test will now always succeed but I have an error
in my function and we have a second test
or we can add a second test where we confirm that this is not the case.
So let's say we say should output dataless text or whatever you want to name it
and there I could also generate a text with generate text but I pass an empty string and I pass null
as a number here and then I can expect that text should be,
what should it be like?
It should be basically just a blank and then nothing
years old,
right.
Well let's give this a try. If I save that,
it fails because I always get back Max 29 years old because I broke that function. I had a false positive
for the first test because I returned the value which I expected there but the value didn't take
the inputs into account,
now I can fix this of course and return to the function form I had before
and now the second text will fail because there, I should expect null years old of course,
I passed null not nothing
and now there I passed two and I have confirmation that I don't have a false positive here.
So adding a second test like this might make sense as well to kind of check for the opposite
or check the same thing with different arguments, though you could do the same in one and the same test,
you can have multiple expects here too
so you could generate Anna 28 here as well and then simply add another expectation here, text two
to be Anna 28 years and now this should also pass
but having such double checks that is the main thing, can make a lot of sense to avoid false positives
and here I have a double check as well as testing the opposite.
So what happens if I call that function incorrectly?
What happens if I pass nothing for example?
Well then we would expect undefined
undefined here right
and that would be a test that could also make sense.
So I'll delete that for now,
I'll leave it at the simple unit test but you should be aware of the fact that you can write multiple
unit tests for one and the same thing,
then you can check more than one thing in a unit test and that you might also want to check for false
positives or for opposites
but now, let's move on to integration tests.